# Move an existing school to a different RB

This can happen commonly with academy conversions but also without the school changing the URN (closing and reopening). Mostly the school will have closed and reopened with a new URN. When a request has come in from a RB asking for the school to be included, they often won't include the URN.  If the school has changed URN then there may be an existing school (under the closed URN) in the service and the current school with a new URN in the `DataStage`. The school might've renamed in the process too.

Find the school in the `DataStage` area to check that it hasn't in fact closed and reopened with a new URN.

```ruby
ss = DataStage::School.find_by(urn: 123456)
```

or

```ruby
ss = DataStage::School.where("name like '%School Name%'")
```

If the school has closed/reopened then follow the procedure to add a new school (see add_missing_school.md).



Get the school from the school table

```ruby
s = School.find_by(urn: 123456)
```

Check that the receiving responsible body exists (if it does not then that will need to be added first)

```ruby
rb = ResponsibleBody.find_by(name: ss.responsible_body_name)
```

Move the school to the new RB

```ruby
s.update!(responsible_body: rb)
```

This leaves the existing preorder information, allocations and users still associated with the school.  This might not be desired so further updates to these may be necessary or in some cases these can be handled later by support colleagues via the support portal.



## Notify Computacenter

We need to let Computacenter know of the changes.  As we've moved the school to a new RB, we need to export it to a CSV file and send it to CC so that they can update their records.  In these cases CC seem to keep the existing `shipTo` number (`computacenter_reference`) for the school but update their records with the new `shipTo` / `soldTo` relationship.

Select the schools to include and use the `SchoolDataExporter` to generate a CSV for CC.  I normally create this in the `public` folder under the rails root:

```ruby
SchoolDataExporter.new('public/school-changes.csv').export_schools(School.where(urn: [147860,138156]))
```
You should be able to download the file with your browser by entering the file name directly after the prod site url as the rails server is currently set to serve static assets

```
https://get-help-with-tech.education.gov.uk/school-changes.csv
```

Once downloaded, remember to remove the files from the server from the SSH command line

```bash
$ rm public/school-changes.csv
```

Finally open these CSV files in a suitable editor and append an extra column at the end with the header "New/Amended".  For each moved school set this value to 'Amended' to make it easier for CC to process.

Email the CSV files to  CC.

CC will return the file with `shipTo` and `soldTo` references added. These should be checked against the school and RB and updated if necessary.

#### TechSource Users

User change events will be generated by the change to the `:responsible_body_id` so CC will be notified of the change to any TechSource account holders.

